.\" This file is dedicated to the public domain.
.\"
.Dd March 21 2020
.Dt BUILD-DEP 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm build-dep
.Nd make dependency requests for the current build system task
.\" XXX abusing .Os, is this considered okay?
.Os build
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm build-dep
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl C Ar workdir
.Op Ar command...
.Nm build-dep
.Fl w
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
asks the build system to invoke a task, and marks that task as a dependency of
the currently executing task.
.Pp
If the
.Fl n
flag is given, the current task continues on in parallel with the other task.
Otherwise,
.Nm
blocks and waits for the dependency to finish running, then exits with its
status, as if the command had been invoked directly.
.Pp
Tasks are normally started in the requesting task's working directory; the
.Fl C
flag specifies a different directory, relative to the current one (subject to
the remark in BUGS). A working directory must not be an absolute path, and must
not be outside of the project root (the directory in which
.Xr build 1
was invoked).
.Fl C
can also be specified without specifying
.Ar command ,
in which case the standard ./Buildfile will be used.
.Pp
If one or more tasks have been requested using
.Fl n ,
it is necessary to wait for them afterwards using the
.Fl w
flag. Not doing so will result in undefined behaviour and great shame upon your
family.
.Sh EXIT CODE
This program mimics the status of whatever task is requested, unless the
.Fl n
option is used, in which case it exits immediately with status 0.
.Pp
If the program is invoked outside of the context of a build, it will complain
and exit with status 50.
.Sh BUGS
A task's working directory is the directory the task was started in, rather
than the working directory of the process making the request. It is not really
clear whether the edge cases associated with this behaviour are the desired
ones, so for now tasks should not rely on changing their own working
directories.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build 1 ,
.Xr build-infile 1 ,
.Xr build-tasktitle 1 ,
.Xr libbuild 3
.Sh COPYRIGHT
This documentation is placed into the public domain. The
.Nm build
software is copyright Michael Smith
.Aq mikesmiffy128@gmail.com .
